# Lab 1: Student Connection Process

In this section, we'll review how to connect to your instance.

**DISCLAIMER:** This header is just for our own purpose, then **you don't need execute it!**:

```bash @mdsh
mdsh-lang-bash() { shell; }
```

## Find your GCP Instance

This lab is designed to accommodate several students. Each student will be provided with a cloud instance running on GCP with nested virtualization, 4 vcpus and 16GiB of RAM. No GCP knowledge is required for this lab.

The naming convention for the lab VMs is: **kubevirtlab-\<number\>.try.kubevirt.me**. You will be assigned an instance number by the instructor.

All the boxes have been provisioned with an SSH public key, so you can SSH into your instance using the ssh key located into [RSA](./RSA) folder.

```shell
## LAB 001

wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/kubevirt/kubevirt-tutorial/master/labs/lab001/RSA/kubevirt-tutorial
chmod 600 kubevirt-tutorial
```

- And then add it to your ssh agent
```
ssh-add kubevirt-tutorial
```

## Connecting to your Instance

This lab should be performed on **YOUR ASSIGNED INSTANCE** only, as the *kubevirt* user, unless otherwise instructed.

**NOTE**: Please be respectful and only connect to your assigned instance. All instances on this lab use the **same** public key, so you could accidentally connect to the wrong system. If you have any issues, please inform your instructor/s.

```
$ ssh -i kubevirt-tutorial kubevirt@kubevirtlab-<number>.try.kubevirt.me

The authenticity of host 'kubevirtlab-2.try.kubevirt.me (35.188.64.157)' can't be established.
ECDSA key fingerprint is SHA256:36+hPGyR9ZxYRRfMngif8PXLR1yoVFCGZ1kylpNE8Sk.
Are you sure you want to continue connecting (yes/no)? yes
Warning: Permanently added 'kubevirtlab-2.try.kubevirt.me,35.188.64.157' (ECDSA) to the list of known hosts.
```

This means the host you are about to connect to is not in your *known_hosts* list. Accept the fingerprint to connect to the instance.

This concludes this section of the lab.

[<< Previous: Lab Overview](../lab000/lab000.md) | [README](../../README.md) | [Next: Review the Kubernetes environment >>](../lab002/lab002.md)
